## Pygame Documentation Overview

### Accessing Documentation

Obviously you can visit pyga.me/docs/ to see the documentation,
but the documentation can also be launched with `python -m pygame.docs`

### Generating the Documentation

Steps:

- Fork the pygame-ce repository, download and navigate to it in the terminal
- Run `python dev.py docs`
- If you are using the legacy `python setup.py docs` (which is now deprecated):
  - (Run `python -m pip install -U pip setuptools` first if `ModuleNotFoundError: No module named setuptools` occurs)

This will create a new folder under the `docs` folder.
In `docs/generated`, you will find a local copy of the pygame documentation.

You can launch this by clicking on index.html or by running the command
`python -m docs` from the pygame folder. (The same as manually running
__main__.py in `docs/`). The docs launch command will direct you to the
pygame website if there aren't any locally generated docs.

--- **DEPRECATED** ---
There is also a `docs --fullgeneration` or `docs --f` command for regenerating
everything regardless of whether Sphinx thinks it should be regenerated. This
is useful when editing the theme CSS.


--- **INSTEAD USE** ---
There is also `python dev.py docs --full` for regenerating
everything regardless of whether Sphinx thinks it should be regenerated. This
is useful when editing the theme CSS.

### Contributing

If you see any grammatical mistakes or errors in the documentation,
contributing to the docs is a great way to help out.

For simple things, no issue is necessary -- but if you want to change
something complex it would be best to open an issue first.

Some background that may help with changes: pygame's documentation
is written in rst files, which stands for "ReStructured Text." We use Sphinx
([Sphinx Documentation](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/)) to convert
these rst files into html, which are then hosted on the pygame website.

Sphinx has a good ReStructed Text primer to learn the basics:
https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html

Contributing steps:

- Have an idea to improve the docs, perhaps create an issue on Github.
- Find the file you want to edit. It will most likely be in `docs/reST/ref`.
  OR
- Pygame docs pages have an "Edit on Github" button, which will show you the file.
- Download the pygame source from Github locally.^ One way to do this is to fork and use a Git client to make that a local repository.
- Implement your idea.
- Follow the steps in "Generating the Documentation" above.
  ^ This is important to test that your changes work well.
- Commit your changes, create a pull request.

## Documentation Style

The pygame documentation files have developed the convention of a 79 character
line limit, from PEP8.

They also use a 3 space indent.

## Pygame Documentation Implementation Details

This is meant to be a place for explanations of things that may confuse people
in the future.

### Hidden modules

Pygame-ce has documentation for some experimental modules like sdl2_video. It just
doesn't show them, because `docs/reST/themes/classic/elements.html` has a list of
"blacklisted" modules to not put into the top bar.

### Styling / Themes

CSS rules for the generated HTML come from
`docs/reST/themes/classic/static/pygame.css_t`. This, in turn, inherits rules
from Sphinx's basic.css, which is autogenerated when Sphinx builds.

This is an example of a
[Sphinx static template](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/development/theming.html#static-templates)
